Add lambda content (#447)
neondatabase/website: content/docs/guides/aws-lambda.md

---
title: Connect from AWS Lambda
enableTableOfContents: true
---

AWS Lambda is a serverless, event-driven compute service that allows you to run code without provisioning or managing servers. It is a convenient and cost-effective solution for running various types of workloads, including those that require a database.

This guide describes how to set up a Neon database and connect to it from an AWS Lambda function using Node.js as the runtime environment. It covers:

- Creating a Lambda function using the [Serverless Framework](https://www.serverless.com/), which is a serverless application lifecycle management framework.
- Connecting your Lambda function to a Neon database.
- Deploying the Lambda function to AWS.

## Prerequisites

> - A Neon account. If you do not have one, see [Sign up](https://neon.tech/docs/get-started-with-neon/signing-up/) for instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A Neon account. If you do not have one, see [Sign up](https://neon.tech/docs/get-started-with-neon/signing-up/) for instructions.
- A Neon project. If you do not have one, see [Set up a Project](https://websitemain62807-dpriceupdatebranchapidocs.gatsbyjs.io/docs/get-started-with-neon/setting-up-a-project/)
```

Author: Added the steps.

> - An AWS account. You can create a free AWS account at [AWS Free Tier](https://aws.amazon.com/free/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An AWS account. You can create a free AWS account at [AWS Free Tier](https://aws.amazon.com/free/). You will also need to [create an IAM User and Access Key](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_users_create.html) to programmatically interact with your AWS account.

```

## Create a table in Neon

To create a table, navigate to the **SQL Editor** in the [Neon Console](https://console.neon.tech/), or connect to your project using Neon's [passwordless connect](../../connect/passwordless-connect/) feature:

```bash
psql -h pg.neon.tech
```

In the SQL Editor or from the `psql` command-line, run the following queries to create a `users` table and insert some data:

```sql
CREATE TABLE users (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    name TEXT NOT NULL,
    email TEXT NOT NULL,
    created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW()
);

INSERT INTO users (name, email)
VALUES
    ('Alice', 'alice@example.com'),
    ('Bob', 'bob@example.com'),
    ('Charlie', 'charlie@example.com'),
    ('Dave', 'dave@example.com'),
    ('Eve', 'eve@example.com');
```

## Create a Lambda function

The following steps describe how to create the Lambda function using the [Serverless Framework](https://www.serverless.com/).

1. Install the Serverless Framework by running the following command:

    ```bash
    npm install -g serverless
    ```

> 2. Create a `my-lambda` project and change to that directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a `my-lambda` project directory and navigate into it
```

Author: Fixed.

    ```bash

>     mkdir my-lambda
>     cd my-lambda

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    mkdir neon-lambda
    cd neon-lambda
```

Just a suggestion

    ```

> 3. Run the **serverless** command to create a serverless project. When prompted, select the **AWS - Node.js - Starter** project and provide your AWS account credentials, which include your AWS Access Key Id and AWS Secret Access Key. The process creates an `aws-node-project` directory.

Reviewer: I thin here we should show the terminal output when running this command

Author: Added!

    ```bash
     serverless
    ```

4. Install the `node-postgres` package, which you will use to connect to the database.

    ```bash
    npm install pg
    ```

> 5. Create a new file named `user.js` and add the following code:

Author: Where is user.js created? In the aws-node-project directory that is created by runnign the **serverless** command?

Reviewer: I think so. Definitely a bit confusing on whether I should install `pg` in the project folder or in the folder created for the lambda function

Author: Thank you. Fixed.

    ```js
    'use strict';

    const { Client } = require('pg');

    module.exports.getAllUsers = async () => {
     var client = new Client(process.env.DATABASE_URL);
     client.connect();

>      var { rows } = await client.query('SELECT * from users);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     var { rows } = await client.query('SELECT * from users');
```

     return {
       statusCode: 200,
       body: JSON.stringify({
         data: rows,
       }),
     };
    };
    ```

    The code above exports the function `getAllUsers`, which retrieves all rows from the `users` table and returns them as a `JSON` object in the `HTTP` response body.

>     The function uses the `pg` library to connect to the Neon database using the `Client` class and the database connection URL that is stored in the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable. The function calls the connect method on the `Client` instance to establish a connection to the database, and uses the query method to execute a `SELECT` statement that retrieves all rows from the `users` table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This function uses the `pg` library to connect to the Neon database. First, you create a new `Client` instance and pass the database connection string which is available in the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable. you then call `connect()` to establish a connection to the database. Finally, you are using the `query()` method to execute a `SELECT` statement that retrieves all rows from the `users` table.
```

6. Add the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable and the function definition to the `serverless.yml` file, which is located in your `aws-node-project` directory.

    You can copy the connection string from the Neon Console, and add the `DATABASE_URL` under `environment`. Add `sslmode=require` to enable SSL. The `sslmode=require` option tells PostgreSQL to use SSL encryption and verify the server's certificate.
  
    ```yaml
    org: aws-user
    app: lambda-example
    service: nodejs
    frameworkVersion: '3'

    provider:
     name: aws
     runtime: nodejs14.x
     region: eu-west-1
     environment:
       DATABASE_URL: postgres://<USER>:<PASSWORD>@<HOST>/<DATABASE>?sslmode=require

    functions:
     getAllUsers:
       handler: users.getAllUsers
       events:
         - httpApi:
             path: /users
             method: get
    ```

> 7. Deploy your function using the following command:

Author: The serverless deploy failed for me. Do I require a Serverless Framework account? I got this message:
Warning: Invalid configuration encountered
  at 'org': must match pattern "^[a-z0-9]{5,39}$"
Learn more about configuration validation here: http://slss.io/configuration-validation
Deploying nodejs to stage dev (eu-west-1)
✖ Stack nodejs-dev failed to deploy (0s)
Environment: linux, node 16.17.1, framework 3.26.0, plugin 6.2.2, SDK 4.3.2
Credentials: Local, "default" profile
Docs:        docs.serverless.com
Support:     forum.serverless.com
Bugs:        github.com/serverless/serverless/issues

Error:
You are not currently logged in. To log in, use: $ serverless login

Author: Issue addressed.

    ```bash
    serverless deploy
    ```

    The `serverless deploy` command generates an API endpoint using [API Gateway](https://www.serverless.com/framework/docs/providers/aws/events/http-api).
  

> 8. If you make API calls to the Lambda function from your app, you will likely need to configure Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS).  Visit the AWS documentation for information about [how to enable CORS in API Gateway](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/http-api-cors.html).

Author: Add a CORS section at the bottom

         data: rows,
       }),
     };
    };
    ```

    The code in the `users.js` file exports the `getAllUsers` function, which retrieves all rows from the `users` table and returns them as a `JSON` object in the `HTTP` response body.

    This function uses the `pg` library to connect to the Neon database. It creates a new `Client` instance and passes the database connection string, which is defined in the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable. It then calls `connect()` to establish a connection to the database. Finally, it uses the `query()` method to execute a `SELECT` statement that retrieves all rows from the `users` table.

    The query method returns a `Promise` that resolves to an object containing the rows retrieved by the `SELECT` statement, which the function parses to retrieve the `rows` property. Finally, the function returns an `HTTP` response with a status code of 200 and a body that contains a `JSON` object with a single `data` property, which is set to the value of the rows variable.

6. Add the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable and the function definition to the `serverless.yml` file, which is located in your `aws-node-project` directory.

>     You can copy the connection string from **Connection Details** widget the Neon Console. Add the `DATABASE_URL` under `environment`, and add `sslmode=require` to the end of the connection string to enable SSL. The `sslmode=require` option tells PostgreSQL to use SSL encryption and verify the server's certificate.

Reviewer: Not sure if we should include how to load environment variables from a `.env` file 🤔

https://www.serverless.com/framework/docs/environment-variables. I found this guide in Serverless framework's docs but I haven't tried it

Author: Add a note about using a .env file for environment variables.
